Add a blog post about helping welcome wagon attendees (#13)
ericholscher/ericholscher.com: site/blog/2019/sep/19/helping-first-time-conference-attendees-with-welcome-wagon.rst

> Helping First-Time Conference Attendees with the Welcome Wagon

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using a Welcome Wagon to Help First-Time Conference Attendees
```

==============================================================

> You walk into the room and you're wearing the *wrong* thing.

Reviewer: I wonder if we can give this more punch by being a little more specific. For example, 

> Imagine walking into a room wearing your fanciest threads, topped with a cloche or fedora, and everyone else is wearing their Tom's and khakis. You'd probably feel mortified and find an excuse to leave quickly. If only it was like in high school when you could call a friend to ask them what they're wearing!

Author: Yea, I wanted to make it more specific but all the examples were often geocentric and also gendered, which I wanted to avoid.

Everyone else is dressed casually,
but you are not.
You feel silly and find the quickest excuse to leave the situation.
This is an example of a common situation:
not knowing what is expected of you when you enter a new place.

It's stressful to enter a new group without knowing what to expect.
It breeds anxiety and self-doubt,

> and makes it much more likely you'll find excuses not to join.

Reviewer: Just removing the negative from the sentence:
```suggestion
and makes it much less likely you'll join any activities.
```

At Write the Docs,

> we're working to reduce the possibility of this happening.

Reviewer: If you decide to go with the friend in high school analogy, you can use it here too:  
> We want to be that friend you can call to find out what to wear, or bring, or expect of your experience.

Author: I think the idea of having a friend at the event ahead of time is an interesting analogy. We can likely do it without needing the high-school reference. I'll think a bit more about it.

> We have a program that we call the Welcome Wagon,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We do this with the Welcome Wagon program,
```

> that helps attendees at both the planning and the attending stage of the conference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which helps attendees at both the planning and the attending stages of the conference.
```

> We hope that this makes it much easier for them to interact and get the most value out of being in our community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We hope that this breaks down barriers to help them get the most value from our community.
```

Welcome Wagon Guide
-------------------

One major part of the Welcome Wagon is our `guide`_.

> It acts as documentation on our community,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It documents how to successfully navigate our community. It's basically
```

a User Guide for the conference.
It covers:

* Common questions, like "How should I dress?" and "Where is everything?"
* How to plan your time at the conference
* What is expected of you while you're at the conference
* Tips and tricks for having the best time at the event

We answer attendees most common questions before the event,

> making it more explicit what is expected of them and how they can make sure to enjoy themselves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
making expectations more explicit and enabling people to focus on enjoying their time instead of spending it worrying.
```

This reduces anxiety and also makes it more likely that people will have a good first experience with our community.

.. _guide: https://www.writethedocs.org/conf/portland/2019/welcome-wagon/

Welcome Wagon Events
--------------------

The second major part of the Welcome Wagon is a set of events at the conference itself.

> We have a team who are the humans that are the "Welcome Wagon",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have a team who are the humans who are the "Welcome Wagon",
```

> and they lead the events at the conference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and they lead the Welcome Wagon events at the conference.
```

> Their picture is also in the guide to make it easy to find them at the event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will find their pictures in the guide to make it easy to recognize them at the event.
```

> Currently we do:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently we:
```

> * An introduction the evening before the conference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Provide an introduction the evening before the conference
```

> * Venue tours the evening before and morning of the conference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Give venue tours the evening before and the morning of the conference
```

> * We also invite the attendees to ask the Welcome Wagon team questions any time throughout the conference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Invite the attendees to ask the Welcome Wagon team questions any time throughout the conference
```

The goal of these events is to introduce the Welcome Wagon team to people,

> as well as to explain how the conference and community works.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as well as to explain how the conference and community work.
```

> Attendees will ask the Welcome Wagon team questions throughout the conference,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Attendees can ask the Welcome Wagon team questions throughout the conference,
```

because they know their faces and that they will be helpful.

Run a Welcome Wagon
-------------------

If you're curious about how to run a Welcome Wagon at your conference,
you're in luck.

> We have a `organizer guide`_ that explains how to do it.

Reviewer: It would be cool to have this guide and the welcome wagon as docs in a repo so people could just fork it easily.

Author: Agreed! I wonder the best path forward on it. The PyCascades folks made it a specific repo for each event, which might work but is also a bit heavy :/

We strongly believe that iteration across a number of events and perspectives are the best way to make great things.
So if you adopt a similar program at your conference we'd love to hear about it.
We are always open to feedback and ideas to make the program better as well.

You can also look at our examples from our 2019 conferences in order to get a better idea:

* `Portland 2019 Welcome Wagon`_ 
* `Prague 2019 Welcome Wagon`_ 

.. _Portland 2019 Welcome Wagon: https://www.writethedocs.org/conf/portland/2019/welcome-wagon/
.. _Prague 2019 Welcome Wagon: https://www.writethedocs.org/conf/prague/2019/welcome-wagon/

Credits
-------

I wrote this blog post,
but the Welcome Wagon wasn't my idea.

> It was created by Christy Lutz and Leona Campbell at our Portland conference.

Reviewer: ❤️
